# SDPA_KeiranGreen95


GitHub Repository Link "https://github.com/KeiranGreen1995PY/SDPA_KeiranGreen95.git"
I have added SDPA-UoB as a collaborator

Dots & Boxes object-orientated programme description 

I decided to create a dots and boxes game using an object-orientated programming approach in python Spyder IDE. I created two classes, the first is a player class, and the second is a board class. I created a main script that imports the board, and player and then later added the computer player class to run the classes I implemented. The player class contains attributes such as name, score, x location, y location, and the board. The board class includes a grid containing dots and methods for drawing the necessary lines between the dots. However, then check if player 1, player 2, or the computer player has completed a box. The main loop is added to alternate between players 1, and 2 and the computer player until the game has been completed.

In player class, the add point method is used to increment the score of the player by 1 updating the board with the updated score and player position. The computer player class is a subclass of the player class overriding the add point method. the add point method first increments the score calling the drawn line and updating board methods from the board class passing in a row, col, and horizontal as arguments. They get random move returns and random row and column index for the computer player to relocate to. In the board class, the init method is used to initialise the rows, cols, and players attributes of the board instance. Moreover, it will create a 2d grid of zeros row number of rows, and col number of columns. I have also added a dictionary of player positions to map the player names to their position on the board. 

The draw line method takes player, row col, and horizontal as arguments either incrementing the value of the element at the specified col and row index in the self grid by a value 2 if the horizontal happens to be true. Alternatively, increment the value of the element at the specified col index and row index in the self grid by 2 if horizontal happens to be false. Moreover, I decided that I wanted to update the player position in self player position with the new row and col values. The check box method is used to take in a player, row, and col as arguments and returns true if the element at the col index and row index is in self. grid is 3, and False otherwise.
The draw_Board method iterates over the rows in the self grid and prints out each element in the row separated by a space.
The get_player_positions method returns the current player positions stored in self-player positions.

The main script runs the game of Dots and Boxes by importing the modules player class with the subclass computer player, and then the board class. As soon as the player enters the number of rows and columns for the game board, the main function creates a Board object. After the player inputs the names of players 1 and 2, two Player objects are created.
Once the break statement is encountered, the program enters an infinite loop. In each iteration of the loop, the program asks the current player for a row, column, or and whether to draw a horizontal or vertical line. It prints an error message if the draw_line method of the board object returns False, signaling that the move is invalid.
The program checks if the player has completed a box if the move is valid. The player's score is incremented if they have called the add_ point method on the player object. Once all players have reached the maximum score (the number of rows multiplied by the number of columns), the program exits the loop and declares a winner. If player 1 has a higher score, it prints that player 1, if player 2 has a higher score, it prints that player 2, and if both scores are equal, it prints that the game is a tie.
